What makes it so hard for computers to understand us?
One drawback of human languages,
or feature depending on how you look at it,
is the lack of a precisely defined structure.
To understand how that makes things difficult let's
first take a look at some languages that are more structured.
Mathematics, for instance, uses a structured language.
When I write y equals 2x plus 5 there is no ambiguity in what I want to convey.
I'm saying that the variable y is related to the variable x as two times x plus five.
Formal logic also uses a structure language.
For example, consider the expression parent(x,y) and parent(x,z) implies sibling(y, z).
This statement is asserting that if x is a parent of y and x is a parent of z,
then y and z are siblings.
A set of structure languages that may be more
familiar to you are scripting and programming languages.
Consider this SQL statement.
SELECT name, email FROM users WHERE name LIKE A%.
We are asking the database to return the names and
e-mail addresses of all users whose names begin with an A.
These languages are designed to be as
unambiguous as possible and are suitable for computers to process.